---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Meteor Gotchas"
date: 2017-03-09
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---

To anyone learning Meteor, I say take it slow and easy. Once you have an experience down, do it once more to confirm your new knowledge and to gain confidence moving forward. 

## "That file goes where??"

Getting tossed into a template project is always daunting. This fear is doubled when you have little experience with the ideas and logic behind the code itself. Here are some of the many questions I have asked myself while trying to learn Meteor with the template I was given:

> "What is this file?" 

> "Why do I need this?" 

> "Why can't I start from scratch?"

It takes a lot to pick up where someone has left off. Sometimes, it may be as difficult as learning from scratch! But understanding the concepts behind what everything does pays off. 

The very first problem I encountered in Meteor (aside from all the Windows funk) was figuring out why a page I added wasn't showing up. I correctly put the code in the imports/startup/client/router.js file, and I put it inside the index.js file. I took a small break after tackling this problem for 30 minutes, only to discover that I had put the file I needed in the wrong directory. Instead of putting my page in the imports/ui/pages directory, I had placed my page in the imports/ui/layouts directory. What?!? A one-minute fix to correct a half hour of frustration.

There are so many things that could go wrong when tackling code like this, and this was the problem that I just happened to come across.

## Building with smaller, preassembled buildings

The bigger problem I had with learning Meteor was putting together everything together. A specific example of this was just trying to insert a link in my menubar using the given Meteor template application. The template application homepage menu item was described as:

~~~~
 <a class="item" href="{{pathFor 'Home_Page'}}"><h1>digits</h1></a>
~~~~

What is `pathFor`? What is `Home_Page`? How does it even know that this is the correct link? I tackled this problem by simply copying this word for word and trying to modify the `pathFor` and it worked! Hooray!
